README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <h1>Mole</h1>
  <p><em>Deep clean and optimize your Mac.</em></p>
</div>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/tw93/mole/stargazers"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/tw93/mole?style=flat-square" alt="Stars"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/tw93/mole/releases"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/tw93/mole?label=version&style=flat-square" alt="Version"></a>
  <a href="LICENSE"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg?style=flat-square" alt="License"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/tw93/mole/commits"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/tw93/mole?style=flat-square" alt="Commits"></a>
  <a href="https://twitter.com/HiTw93"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/follow-Tw93-red?style=flat-square&logo=Twitter" alt="Twitter"></a>
  <a href="https://t.me/+GclQS9ZnxyI2ODQ1"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-Telegram-blueviolet?style=flat-square&logo=Telegram" alt="Telegram"></a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://cdn.tw93.fun/img/mole.jpeg" alt="Mole - 95.50GB freed" width="800" />
</p>

## Features

- **Unified toolkit**: Consolidated features of CleanMyMac, AppCleaner, DaisyDisk, and iStat into a **single binary**
- **Deep cleaning**: Scans and removes caches, logs, and browser leftovers to **reclaim gigabytes of space**
- **Smart uninstaller**: Thoroughly removes apps along with launch agents, preferences, and **hidden remnants**
- **Disk insights**: Visualizes usage, manages large files, **rebuilds caches**, and refreshes system services
- **Live monitoring**: Real-time stats for CPU, GPU, memory, disk, and network to **diagnose performance issues**

## Quick Start

**Installation:**

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tw93/mole/main/install.sh | bash
```

Or via Homebrew:

```bash
brew install tw93/tap/mole
```

**Run:**

```bash
mo                           # Interactive menu
mo clean                     # Deep cleanup
mo uninstall                 # Remove apps + leftovers
mo optimize                  # Refresh caches & services
mo analyze                   # Visual disk explorer
mo status                    # Live system health dashboard
mo purge                     # Clean project build artifacts

mo touchid                   # Configure Touch ID for sudo
mo update                    # Update Mole
mo remove                    # Remove Mole from system
mo --help                    # Show help
mo --version                 # Show installed version

mo clean --dry-run           # Preview the cleanup plan
mo clean --whitelist         # Manage protected caches
mo uninstall --force-rescan  # Rescan applications and refresh cache
mo optimize --whitelist      # Manage protected optimization rules
```

## Tips

- **Terminal**: iTerm2 has known compatibility issues; we recommend Alacritty, kitty, WezTerm, Ghostty, or Warp.
- **Safety**: Built with strict protections. See our [Security Audit](SECURITY_AUDIT.md). Preview changes with `mo clean --dry-run`.
- **Whitelist**: Manage protected paths with `mo clean --whitelist`.
- **Touch ID**: Enable Touch ID for sudo commands by running `mo touchid`.
- **Navigation**: Supports standard arrow keys and Vim bindings (`h/j/k/l`).
- **Debug**: View detailed logs by appending the `--debug` flag (e.g., `mo clean --debug`).

## Features in Detail

### Deep System Cleanup

```bash
$ mo clean

Scanning cache directories...

  ✓ User app cache                                           45.2GB
  ✓ Browser cache (Chrome, Safari, Firefox)                  10.5GB
  ✓ Developer tools (Xcode, Node.js, npm)                    23.3GB
  ✓ System logs and temp files                                3.8GB
  ✓ App-specific cache (Spotify, Dropbox, Slack)              8.4GB
  ✓ Trash                                                    12.3GB

====================================================================
Space freed: 95.5GB | Free space now: 223.5GB
====================================================================
```

### Smart App Uninstaller

```bash
$ mo uninstall

Select Apps to Remove
═══════════════════════════
▶ ☑ Adobe Creative Cloud      (9.4G) | Old
  ☐ WeChat                    (2.1G) | Recent
  ☐ Final Cut Pro             (3.8G) | Recent

Uninstalling: Adobe Creative Cloud

  ✓ Removed application
  ✓ Cleaned 52 related files across 12 locations
    - Application Support, Caches, Preferences
    - Logs, WebKit storage, Cookies
    - Extensions, Plugins, Launch daemons

====================================================================
Space freed: 12.8GB
====================================================================
```

### System Optimization

```bash
$ mo optimize

System: 5/32 GB RAM | 333/460 GB Disk (72%) | Uptime 6d

  ✓ Rebuild system databases and clear caches
  ✓ Reset network services
  ✓ Refresh Finder and Dock
  ✓ Clean diagnostic and crash logs
  ✓ Remove swap files and restart dynamic pager
  ✓ Rebuild launch services and spotlight index

====================================================================
System optimization completed
====================================================================

Use `mo optimize --whitelist` to protect specific optimization items from being run.
```

### Disk Space Analyzer

```bash
$ mo analyze

Analyze Disk  ~/Documents  |  Total: 156.8GB

 ▶  1. ███████████████████  48.2%  |  📁 Library                     75.4GB  >6mo
    2. ██████████░░░░░░░░░  22.1%  |  📁 Downloads                   34.6GB
    3. ████░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░  14.3%  |  📁 Movies                      22.4GB
    4. ███░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░  10.8%  |  📁 Documents                   16.9GB
    5. ██░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░   5.2%  |  📄 backup_2023.zip              8.2GB

  ↑↓←→ Navigate  |  O Open  |  F Show  |  ⌫ Delete  |  L Large(24)  |  Q Quit
```

### Live System Status

Real-time dashboard with system health score, hardware info, and performance metrics.

```bash
$ mo status

Mole Status  Health ● 92  MacBook Pro · M4 Pro · 32GB · macOS 14.5

⚙ CPU                                    ▦ Memory
Total   ████████████░░░░░░░  45.2%       Used    ███████████░░░░░░░  58.4%
Load    0.82 / 1.05 / 1.23 (8 cores)     Total   14.2 / 24.0 GB
Core 1  ███████████████░░░░  78.3%       Free    ████████░░░░░░░░░░  41.6%
Core 2  ████████████░░░░░░░  62.1%       Avail   9.8 GB

▤ Disk                                   ⚡ Power
Used    █████████████░░░░░░  67.2%       Level   ██████████████████  100%
Free    156.3 GB                         Status  Charged
Read    ▮▯▯▯▯  2.1 MB/s                  Health  Normal · 423 cycles
Write   ▮▮▮▯▯  18.3 MB/s                 Temp    58°C · 1200 RPM

⇅ Network                                ▶ Processes
Down    ▮▮▯▯▯  3.2 MB/s                  Code       ▮▮▮▮▯  42.1%
Up      ▮▯▯▯▯  0.8 MB/s                  Chrome     ▮▮▮▯▯  28.3%
Proxy   HTTP · 192.168.1.100             Terminal   ▮▯▯▯▯  12.5%
```

Health score based on CPU, memory, disk, temperature, and I/O load. Color-coded by range.

### Project Artifact Purge

Clean old build artifacts (`node_modules`, `target`, `build`, `dist`, etc.) from your projects to free up disk space.

```bash
mo purge

Select Categories to Clean - 18.5GB (8 selected)

➤ ● my-react-app       3.2GB | node_modules
  ● old-project        2.8GB | node_modules
  ● rust-app           4.1GB | target
  ● next-blog          1.9GB | node_modules
  ○ current-work       856MB | node_modules  | Recent
  ● django-api         2.3GB | venv
  ● vue-dashboard      1.7GB | node_modules
  ● backend-service    2.5GB | node_modules
```

> **Use with caution:** This will permanently delete selected artifacts. Review carefully before confirming. Recent projects (< 7 days) are marked and unselected by default.

<details>
<summary><strong>Custom Scan Paths</strong></summary>

Create `~/.config/mole/purge_paths` to specify custom directories (one per line, supports `~`):

```shell
~/Documents/MyProjects
~/Work/ClientA
~/Work/ClientB
```

When this file exists, only listed paths are scanned. Otherwise, defaults to `~/Projects`, `~/GitHub`, `~/dev`, etc.

</details>

## Quick Launchers

Launch Mole commands instantly from Raycast or Alfred:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tw93/Mole/main/scripts/setup-quick-launchers.sh | bash
```

Adds 5 commands: `clean`, `uninstall`, `optimize`, `analyze`, `status`. Mole automatically detects your terminal, or you can set `MO_LAUNCHER_APP=<name>` to override. For Raycast, run "Reload Script Directories" to load the new commands.

## Community Love

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://cdn.tw93.fun/pic/lovemole.jpeg" alt="Community feedback on Mole" width="800" />
</p>

Users from around the world are loving Mole! Join the community and share your experience.

## Support

<a href="https://miaoyan.app/cats.html?name=Mole"><img src="https://miaoyan.app/assets/sponsors.svg" width="1000px" /></a>

- If Mole saved you space, consider starring the repo or sharing it with friends who need a cleaner Mac.
- Have ideas or fixes? Open an issue or PR to help shape Mole's future with the community.
- Love cats? Treat Tangyuan and Cola to canned food via <a href="https://miaoyan.app/cats.html?name=Mole" target="_blank">this link</a> to keep our mascots purring.

## License

MIT License - feel free to enjoy and participate in open source.

Commit message:

feat(purge): add --paths option to configure scan directories
- Add lib/manage/purge_paths.sh for interactive path management
- Shows current paths status and opens editor for customization
- Update bin/purge.sh to handle --paths option
- Update README with new command

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <h1>Mole</h1>
  <p><em>Deep clean and optimize your Mac.</em></p>
</div>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/tw93/mole/stargazers"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/tw93/mole?style=flat-square" alt="Stars"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/tw93/mole/releases"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/tag/tw93/mole?label=version&style=flat-square" alt="Version"></a>
  <a href="LICENSE"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg?style=flat-square" alt="License"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/tw93/mole/commits"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/m/tw93/mole?style=flat-square" alt="Commits"></a>
  <a href="https://twitter.com/HiTw93"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/follow-Tw93-red?style=flat-square&logo=Twitter" alt="Twitter"></a>
  <a href="https://t.me/+GclQS9ZnxyI2ODQ1"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/chat-Telegram-blueviolet?style=flat-square&logo=Telegram" alt="Telegram"></a>
</p>

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://cdn.tw93.fun/img/mole.jpeg" alt="Mole - 95.50GB freed" width="800" />
</p>

## Features

- **Unified toolkit**: Consolidated features of CleanMyMac, AppCleaner, DaisyDisk, and iStat into a **single binary**
- **Deep cleaning**: Scans and removes caches, logs, and browser leftovers to **reclaim gigabytes of space**
- **Smart uninstaller**: Thoroughly removes apps along with launch agents, preferences, and **hidden remnants**
- **Disk insights**: Visualizes usage, manages large files, **rebuilds caches**, and refreshes system services
- **Live monitoring**: Real-time stats for CPU, GPU, memory, disk, and network to **diagnose performance issues**

## Quick Start

**Installation:**

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tw93/mole/main/install.sh | bash
```

Or via Homebrew:

```bash
brew install tw93/tap/mole
```

**Run:**

```bash
mo                           # Interactive menu
mo clean                     # Deep cleanup
mo uninstall                 # Remove apps + leftovers
mo optimize                  # Refresh caches & services
mo analyze                   # Visual disk explorer
mo status                    # Live system health dashboard
mo purge                     # Clean project build artifacts

mo touchid                   # Configure Touch ID for sudo
mo update                    # Update Mole
mo remove                    # Remove Mole from system
mo --help                    # Show help
mo --version                 # Show installed version

mo clean --dry-run           # Preview the cleanup plan
mo clean --whitelist         # Manage protected caches
mo uninstall --force-rescan  # Rescan applications and refresh cache
mo optimize --whitelist      # Manage protected optimization rules
mo purge --paths             # Configure project scan directories
```

## Tips

- **Terminal**: iTerm2 has known compatibility issues; we recommend Alacritty, kitty, WezTerm, Ghostty, or Warp.
- **Safety**: Built with strict protections. See our [Security Audit](SECURITY_AUDIT.md). Preview changes with `mo clean --dry-run`.
- **Whitelist**: Manage protected paths with `mo clean --whitelist`.
- **Touch ID**: Enable Touch ID for sudo commands by running `mo touchid`.
- **Navigation**: Supports standard arrow keys and Vim bindings (`h/j/k/l`).
- **Debug**: View detailed logs by appending the `--debug` flag (e.g., `mo clean --debug`).

## Features in Detail

### Deep System Cleanup

```bash
$ mo clean

Scanning cache directories...

  ✓ User app cache                                           45.2GB
  ✓ Browser cache (Chrome, Safari, Firefox)                  10.5GB
  ✓ Developer tools (Xcode, Node.js, npm)                    23.3GB
  ✓ System logs and temp files                                3.8GB
  ✓ App-specific cache (Spotify, Dropbox, Slack)              8.4GB
  ✓ Trash                                                    12.3GB

====================================================================
Space freed: 95.5GB | Free space now: 223.5GB
====================================================================
```

### Smart App Uninstaller

```bash
$ mo uninstall

Select Apps to Remove
═══════════════════════════
▶ ☑ Adobe Creative Cloud      (9.4G) | Old
  ☐ WeChat                    (2.1G) | Recent
  ☐ Final Cut Pro             (3.8G) | Recent

Uninstalling: Adobe Creative Cloud

  ✓ Removed application
  ✓ Cleaned 52 related files across 12 locations
    - Application Support, Caches, Preferences
    - Logs, WebKit storage, Cookies
    - Extensions, Plugins, Launch daemons

====================================================================
Space freed: 12.8GB
====================================================================
```

### System Optimization

```bash
$ mo optimize

System: 5/32 GB RAM | 333/460 GB Disk (72%) | Uptime 6d

  ✓ Rebuild system databases and clear caches
  ✓ Reset network services
  ✓ Refresh Finder and Dock
  ✓ Clean diagnostic and crash logs
  ✓ Remove swap files and restart dynamic pager
  ✓ Rebuild launch services and spotlight index

====================================================================
System optimization completed
====================================================================

Use `mo optimize --whitelist` to protect specific optimization items from being run.
```

### Disk Space Analyzer

```bash
$ mo analyze

Analyze Disk  ~/Documents  |  Total: 156.8GB

 ▶  1. ███████████████████  48.2%  |  📁 Library                     75.4GB  >6mo
    2. ██████████░░░░░░░░░  22.1%  |  📁 Downloads                   34.6GB
    3. ████░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░  14.3%  |  📁 Movies                      22.4GB
    4. ███░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░  10.8%  |  📁 Documents                   16.9GB
    5. ██░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░░   5.2%  |  📄 backup_2023.zip              8.2GB

  ↑↓←→ Navigate  |  O Open  |  F Show  |  ⌫ Delete  |  L Large(24)  |  Q Quit
```

### Live System Status

Real-time dashboard with system health score, hardware info, and performance metrics.

```bash
$ mo status

Mole Status  Health ● 92  MacBook Pro · M4 Pro · 32GB · macOS 14.5

⚙ CPU                                    ▦ Memory
Total   ████████████░░░░░░░  45.2%       Used    ███████████░░░░░░░  58.4%
Load    0.82 / 1.05 / 1.23 (8 cores)     Total   14.2 / 24.0 GB
Core 1  ███████████████░░░░  78.3%       Free    ████████░░░░░░░░░░  41.6%
Core 2  ████████████░░░░░░░  62.1%       Avail   9.8 GB

▤ Disk                                   ⚡ Power
Used    █████████████░░░░░░  67.2%       Level   ██████████████████  100%
Free    156.3 GB                         Status  Charged
Read    ▮▯▯▯▯  2.1 MB/s                  Health  Normal · 423 cycles
Write   ▮▮▮▯▯  18.3 MB/s                 Temp    58°C · 1200 RPM

⇅ Network                                ▶ Processes
Down    ▮▮▯▯▯  3.2 MB/s                  Code       ▮▮▮▮▯  42.1%
Up      ▮▯▯▯▯  0.8 MB/s                  Chrome     ▮▮▮▯▯  28.3%
Proxy   HTTP · 192.168.1.100             Terminal   ▮▯▯▯▯  12.5%
```

Health score based on CPU, memory, disk, temperature, and I/O load. Color-coded by range.

### Project Artifact Purge

Clean old build artifacts (`node_modules`, `target`, `build`, `dist`, etc.) from your projects to free up disk space.

```bash
mo purge

Select Categories to Clean - 18.5GB (8 selected)

➤ ● my-react-app       3.2GB | node_modules
  ● old-project        2.8GB | node_modules
  ● rust-app           4.1GB | target
  ● next-blog          1.9GB | node_modules
  ○ current-work       856MB | node_modules  | Recent
  ● django-api         2.3GB | venv
  ● vue-dashboard      1.7GB | node_modules
  ● backend-service    2.5GB | node_modules
```

> **Use with caution:** This will permanently delete selected artifacts. Review carefully before confirming. Recent projects (< 7 days) are marked and unselected by default.

<details>
<summary><strong>Custom Scan Paths</strong></summary>

Run `mo purge --paths` to configure which directories to scan, or edit `~/.config/mole/purge_paths` directly:

```shell
~/Documents/MyProjects
~/Work/ClientA
~/Work/ClientB
```

When custom paths are configured, only those directories are scanned. Otherwise, defaults to `~/Projects`, `~/GitHub`, `~/dev`, etc.

</details>

## Quick Launchers

Launch Mole commands instantly from Raycast or Alfred:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tw93/Mole/main/scripts/setup-quick-launchers.sh | bash
```

Adds 5 commands: `clean`, `uninstall`, `optimize`, `analyze`, `status`. Mole automatically detects your terminal, or you can set `MO_LAUNCHER_APP=<name>` to override. For Raycast, run "Reload Script Directories" to load the new commands.

## Community Love

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://cdn.tw93.fun/pic/lovemole.jpeg" alt="Community feedback on Mole" width="800" />
</p>

Users from around the world are loving Mole! Join the community and share your experience.

## Support

<a href="https://miaoyan.app/cats.html?name=Mole"><img src="https://miaoyan.app/assets/sponsors.svg" width="1000px" /></a>

- If Mole saved you space, consider starring the repo or sharing it with friends who need a cleaner Mac.
- Have ideas or fixes? Open an issue or PR to help shape Mole's future with the community.
- Love cats? Treat Tangyuan and Cola to canned food via <a href="https://miaoyan.app/cats.html?name=Mole" target="_blank">this link</a> to keep our mascots purring.

## License

MIT License - feel free to enjoy and participate in open source.
